today we in this little segment we're
going to be looking at bare-root
strawberries and how they come to you in
the mail when you order them via our
mail order or our website and how you
can handle them best so that they'll
succeed in your garden for you when you
receive your strawberry runners in the
post they'll come in a package similar
to this
they've been wrapped up in moist Coco
fiber to keep the roots protected while
they've been in transit it's really
important that you treat these runners
with care to maximize their success
growing in your garden if you can't
plant them in the next couple of days
make sure you put them somewhere cool
maybe even in the fridge and then a
couple of days when they're ready to
plant you can bring them out when you
open the parcel you'll find all the
roots have been protected in this moist
Coco fiber and the first thing to do
when you open the parcel is then to get
them out and have a check to see how
moist they are if they've dried out give
them a bit of moisture and then we can
get ready to plant them before you plant
your strawberry runners it's important
to prepare the ground well strawberries
are heavy feeders they like a well
manured soil it's got lots of compost
dug in slightly acid but also can hold
lots of moisture you don't want your
soil to be too heavy though because if
it's too heavy and clay the young
runners are rot okay so now we're ready
to plant our strawberry runners pull
each one out individually from the
packet and you'll see about 10
centimeters worth of fibrous root growth
these roots are what we're going to
plant into the soil we dig our hole
about 15 to 20 centimeters from the one
next to it because that's about a good
spacing for strawberries and we put them
in making sure that we don't get the
roots curling back on themselves so
they're kept nice and straight it's
really important when you plant your
strawberries that you get the height
right you want to get the soil level
just at the point where those roots are
where they meet the top of the crown if
they're in too deep they'll rot the
crown if they're in too high they'll
they'll dry out so that's about the
right height there so once you've
planted your strawberries it's time to
give them a quick drink to water
you don't need to water them a lot this
stage you just need to keep them moist
or just a little bit of moisture into
the soil to wash them into the ground
typically you get these runners in the
middle of winter so the soil moisture is
already quite high one of the major
reasons that strawberry runners fail is
over watering at this time of the year
because the roots tend to rot in the
ground so I really just need to water
them in for now allow them to settle in
and start to grow and then start
supplementary watering when the weather
starts to warm up and the soil starts to
dry at that point - it's a good idea for
keeping the moisture up in the mint in
the in the spring time to bring some
mulch around to keep that moisture into
the ground and protect the plants while
they grow